1. rinse the basmati rice, till the water runs clear of the starch. then soak the rice in water for 30 mins. drain and keep aside.

 wash rice for making veg schezwan fried rice recipe

2. bring water, salt and a few drops of oil to a gentle boil.

 boil water - making schezwan fried rice recipe

3. add the drained soaked rice.

 add rice to water - making veg schezwan fried rice

4. simmer on a low flame, till the rice grains are just cooked.

 cook rice for making schezwan fried rice

5. strain the rice in a colander. rinse the rice with water so that the rice grains stop cooking. gently with your hands, move the cooked rice grains, while rinsing them with water. drain completely. cover and keep aside.

 strain rice - making schezwan fried rice recipe

6. chop all the vegetables finely. remember to chop the french beans very finely. they take more time to cook than other veggies. you can also blanch them first and then cook. another option is to add the beans first and then add the other vegetables.

 chop vegetables for schezwan fried rice recipe

7. heat oil in a pan. add the chopped garlic and saute for about 15 to 20 seconds.

 sauting garlic for preparing schezwan fried rice

8. now increase the flame to its highest, add all the vegetables including the spring onions and celery.

 add vegetables for making veg schezwan fried rice recipe

9. keep on stirring the veggies, till they start getting browned from the edges. it took me about 9 minutes for the vegetables to cook.

 cooking vegetables for schezwan fried rice recipe

10. now add the schezwan sauce.

 add the schezwan sauce

11. stir well.

 stir veg schezwan fried rice masala

12. add the rice in parts and keep on stirring. stir gently as you don’t want the rice grains to break.

 add rice to veg schezwan fried rice masala

13. season with salt, pepper and vinegar.

 add salt to schezwan fried rice recipe

14. mix and stir fry for 2 to 3 minutes tossing the rice so that the sauce coats each and every rice grain well. check the taste and add more salt, pepper and schezwan sauce if required.

 check taste of veg schezwan fried rice

15. garnish with spring onion greens and serve the schezwan fried rice hot with any indo chinese sauce like mushroom manchurian or paneer manchurian or baby corn manchurian or cauliflower manchurian.

 schezwan fried rice recipe, veg schezwan fried rice recipe

if you are looking for more indo chinese recipes then do check schezwan chilli potatoes, vegetable fried rice, mushroom fried rice, vegetable hakka noodles and sesame veg toast recipe.

schezwan fried rice recipe below:
4.6 from 7 reviews
schezwan fried rice recipe
 

Save
 
PRINT
PREP TIME
45 mins
COOK TIME
20 mins
TOTAL TIME
1 hour 5 mins
 
schezwan fried rice - spicy stir fried indo chinese recipe of vegetables and rice in schezwan sauce.
AUTHOR: dassana
RECIPE TYPE: main
CUISINE: indo chinese
SERVES: 3-4
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for cooking rice:
1.5 cups basmati rice or long grained rice
6 cups water
½ tsp salt
2-3 drops of oil
for making schezwan rice:
2 or 2.5 cups finally chopped vegetables ( i used 1 medium carrot, 8 french beans, ¼ cup finally chopped cabbage, 1 small capsicum/green bell pepper)
1 or 2 spring onions/scallions finely chopped, reserve the greens for garnishing
1 tsp finely chopped celery (optional), skip if you do not have.
2-3 garlic, finely chopped
2 tbsp schezwan sauce or as required - click for the recipe of schezwan sauce
¼ tsp black pepper or as required
½ tsp rice vinegar or apple cider vinegar or regular vinegar
2 tbsp sesame oil or any vegetable oil
salt as required
INSTRUCTIONS
preparing rice:
rinse rice very well till the water runs clear of starch. soak the rice in enough water for 30 minutes.
drain and keep aside.
in a pot, bring to a gentle boil 6 cups of water with salt and 2 to 3 drops of oil.
add the soaked and drained rice to the hot water.
on a low to medium flame cook the rice without the lid.
when the rice becomes al dente or just cooked, remove the pot from fire and strain the rice.
gently rinse the rice in water so that they stop cooking and don't stick to each other.
cover the rice and keep aside.
preparing schezwan fried rice:
finely chop all the vegetables. you can even shred the vegetables in a food processor.
heat oil in a wok. add garlic and saute for a 15 to 20 seconds.
add the onions, celery and all the vegetables.
increase the flame and stir fry the vegetables on a high heat.
more finely the vegetables are chopped, more faster they will cook.
keep on stirring and tossing the vegetables on a high heat continuously. so that they are equally browned and cooked.
when the edges of the veggies starts to become light brown, add schezwan sauce.
stir and then add the drained rice in parts.
mix and toss the rice with the veggies gently.
season with salt, pepper and vinegar. stir and toss well so that the sauce coats all the rice grains evenly.
garnish the schezwan fried rice with the spring onions greens.
serve schezwan fried rice plain or with a side indo chinese dish like veg manchurian, mushroom manchurian or any dish of your choice.